# Customer-Segmentation-using-SPSS

Verizon Communications Inc., a U.S. multinational telecommunications conglomerate, was seeking to transform its wireless business and take full advantage of current trending 5G technology. The purpose of this study was to target profitable customers by segmentation, to offer the top segments constructive promotions, and to yield more profit for Verizon. 
After conducting a hybrid of Hierarchical and K-Means Cluster Analysis from 226,129 transaction records of 100,000 random U.S. customers, we found our target customer segments based on four variables (Order Numbers, Profit, Recency, and Quantity). Specifically, we aggregated transactional data to generate usable customer data. Then, in the first data set, we conducted hierarchical analysis under Ward’s and Furthest Neighbor methods to figure out the initial seeds for K-Means Cluster Analysis. Eventually, after comparing four analysis results from two random data sets, we finalized six clusters of customers. 
Among the final six clusters, we identified five types of customers and selected the top three target segments, and then we proposed three tailored and pragmatic strategies. To retain the highest profitable Premium VIP Customers, the Vault Strategy offered strongest promotions, private hotlines and birthday gift surprises; to maintain and encourage VIP Customers to upgrade, the Sweets Strategy provided progressive levels of discounts and cashback; to develop Regular Customers into a leading force to increase revenue, the Snowball Strategy aimed to offer affordable basic new 5G plans and cellphones. Moreover, we also gained further insights into target customers’ purchasing preferences and practical managerial implications for Verizon’s upcoming 5G marketing campaigns, from post - hoc analysis of customers’ payment methods, purchase channels, and search interests from Google Trends and Think with Google.
